[Music]
the southern ocean is extremely rich in
food millions of penguins and seals and
thousands of whales feed here
[Music]
the majority of them rely on just one
source of food krill
[Music]
krill are small shrimp-like creatures
about 6 centimeters long in winter
they're dispersed widely mostly under
the ice but in summer they assemble in
vast swarms some of which may contain a
billion individuals
there are the most numerous animals on
earth their total weight far exceeds
that of the total human population
humpback whales during the brief summer
they gorge themselves on krill
when the krill swarms are near the
surface the humpbacks collect them by
lunging they simply open their Kabbalist
mouths and scoop it out often the whales
cooperate working together as fishing
boats do
when the krill is more dispersed the
whales have to dive deeper after a while
lines of bubbles appear on the surface
the bubbles gradually form a pattern
that spirals inwards then suddenly in
its center the waves appear
time and again the pair dive when they
reach the bottom of the dive they start
releasing bubbles and continue to do so
as they swim upwards spiraling around
one another these curtains of bubbles
rise through the water creating a ring
on the surface underwater the curtains
drive the krill into the center of the
spiral and the humpbacks then surge up
through the middle
jaws again
the humpbacks that visit Antarctica only
feed during the brief southern summer
building their reserves for a winter
that will be spent in less productive
northern waters and so for hour after
hour throughout the long Antarctic day
these 40-ton creatures perform a
splendidly synchronized and very
productive underwater ballet